I'm going to show you how to work with
filo pastry filo pastry comes from
Greece it's a very fine pastry a bit
like paper comes rolled up like this so
the first thing I want to do is just
unroll it as you can see how fine it is
you'll get a lot of sheets in a pack now
the important thing to do is keep it
covered while you're working on it
if it dries out it becomes really
brittle and it might crack when you're
rolling or trying to shape with it so
I'm using a clean slightly damp tea
towel and I'm just going to keep it
covered like that at all times while I
work on some sheets so you take a sheet
at a time and then cover the rest and
you need to brush the sheets with either
melted butter or if you want to be a bit
healthier something like olive oil or
sunflower oil because the sheets are so
thin you need to build up layers so I'm
doing this so I get another sheet it
will stick to this one so just a thin
layer of butter brushed over the sheet
go back to my pastry I'm going to get
another sheet
and just put that over and smooth it
down now the number of sheets you'll
need will be depend on what you're doing
with it I'm just going to do three for
these and I'm going to get my third
sheet to cover and that's basically how
you work with the filo I'm going to make
some little Somoza parcels so what you
want to do is cut a strip the size of
the parcel you want I'll do some little
small ones which are going to be perfect
for kind of canapes or nibbles
so take one strip cut down like that and
again while I'm not using this second
strip I'm going to put it back under my
tea towel keeping it moist I'm going to
use a little bit of cranberry and Brie
to fill these which is a classic kind of
combination dollop of the cranberry on a
little bit more what you need to do is
you just you're going to be folding the
corner of your pastry over like that so
you just need to check your fillings in
the right place and I'm going to pop on
some brie and start I'm just going to
brush the edge with a bit of butter so
that's going to be the first bit that's
going to stick down so as I showed you
before you're going to follow the fold
so you're making a triangle and that's
the base of your pastry and then you
just want to follow folding where the
line dictates so that's going to be a
straight fall to there then got diagonal
so fold it diagonally another straight
hold it straight again and then you've
got your last one which is going to be
to seal so I'm going to brush it with
butter again quite liberally this one so
you want this to stick we don't want any
filling to escape when it's cooking and
then fold across to seal press it down
and that's how you make a little
triangle pass on a phyllo to bake it I
brush it again with some more butter you
could sprinkle this with seeds something
like sesame or poppy seeds to make them
little bit prettier so that's finished
puppet on a baking tray and they'll bake
like that in an oven will take about ten
minutes at about 200 degrees and that's
how you work with phyllo pastry